# Fody-Costura-Decompress

 - This is a tool that allows user to compress/decompress compact resource files generated by Fody-Costura individually

See [Fody-Costura repository](https://github.com/fody/costura) for further details on Fody.

The Fody-Costura Library for .NET 4.5 (and over) compresses resources (using [DeflateStream](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.io.compression.deflatestream "DeflateStream Class (System.IO.Compression) | Microsoft Docs")) and adds them into an assembly automatically at compile time to reduce the number of files required for distribution.

To de-compile a .NET assembly, the resources are required. Most de-compilers can extract the resources but they are extracted as compressed files with a .zip or .compressed extension. The .zip extension is incompatible with the standard zip file format. 

This simple utility uses the .NET compression / de-compression library available in .NET 4.5 and over to de-compress the zip file so that it can be de-compiled.

NOTES
-----
~~This is a quick utility thrown together in a rush solely to de-compress files that I required.~~
UI has been updated to be more compact and filled with instructions

~~It has no error checking whatsoever.~~
Added simple error check to prevent program from crashing when error occurs in compression/decompression

If the output file exists, it WILL be overwritten so check that any required files are copied / renamed / backed up first.

The de-compressed file is written using the filename of the existing file minus the .zip or .compressed extension; copy compressed file  will be created with source file name appended with .compressed extension
On some de-compilers, such as Jet Brains, the resources are extracted into folders and given a name that relates (mostly) to the extension.

Examples:
 * foo.bar.dll.zip -> foo.bar.dll
 * foo.bar.dll.compressed -> foo.bar.dll
 * alice.dll -> alice.dll.compressed

However, Jet Brains de-compiler extracts the foo.bar.dll.zip to c:\wherever\foo\bar\dll.zip. It is recommended that the file is renamed to it's original name before de-compression.

